= Stemmify

This is a Rails gem for reducing words to their roots. For example, all the
following words to are stemmed to "observ", which is not a real word
in this case:
	observance
	observances
	observancy
	observant
	observants
	observation
	observe
	observed
	observer
	observers
	observing
	observingly

The algorithm used here is based on the Porter stemmer.
You can read more about Martin Porter's stemmer at 

http://tartarus.org/~martin/PorterStemmer/

Martin Porter explains:

	The Porter stemming algorithm (or ‘Porter stemmer’) is a process for removing
	the commoner morphological and inflexional endings from words in English. Its
	main use is as part of a term normalisation process that is usually done when
	setting up Information Retrieval systems.

== Install

  sudo gem install stemmify
    or
  gem install stemmify

Note that while the source code is hosted github, the actual gem
is hosted on RubyGem.org

== Usage

Let's say you building some sort of search tool. You want
searches for "observations" and "observer" to all bring up
the same items. When you are building you index, you can
map all the words to their roots using the stem method.

Here's an example usage:
	
  require 'stemmify'
  print("observations".stem) # ==> "observ"

== Test Suite

This test is based on the sample input and output text from Martin Porter
website. It includes 23532 test words and their expected stem results.
To run the test, just type

  rake test

== Thanks

Dave Thomas from http://pragprog.com made speed improvements to this code
before it was packaged as a gem.

== License

Copyright (c) 2011 Ray Pereda
 
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:
 
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
